imagine a place so dark you can't see
the nose on your face
eyes open or closed it's all the same
because the Sun never shines there up
ahead you see a light when you creep in
to investigate a blue light Flitz around
you I could watch this forever you think
but you can't because the mouth of an
anglerfish has just sprung open and
eating you alive you are just one of
many creatures at the bottom of the
ocean who learned too late to appreciate
the power of bioluminescence
bioluminescence refers to the ability of
certain living things to create light
the human body can make stuff like
earwax and toenails but these organisms
can turn parts of their body into glow
sticks it's like nature made them ready
to rave Y in one way or another
bioluminescence improves a living things
chances of survival take the Firefly its
ability to glow green helps it attract a
mate on a warm summer night but it's
just one of many living things that can
glow the railroad worm Fritz Oryx hurtis
can light up its body in two colors red
and green would you eat something that
looks like an airport runway neither
would any sensible predator the flashing
lights keep the worm safe then there's
the deep-sea shrimp account the fire
appropriate when it feels threatened it
spews a cloud of glowing goo from its
mouth who doesn't run the other way when
they've just been puked on Plus that
puke attracts bigger predators who want
to eat the shrimp's enemy so what if you
can't bioluminesce no problem there are
other ways for living things to make
bioluminescence work for them even if
they weren't born with the equipment to
glow let's revisit the angler fish
moments before it tried to eat you that
glowing bait on top of its head it comes
from a pocket of skin called the Eska
the Eska holds bioluminescent bacteria
the angler fish can't glow there by
itself so it holds a sack of glowing
bacteria instead remember the Firefly it
can actually make itself glow inside its
lantern are two
chemicals elusive Rijn and elusive race
when Firefly luciferase in luciferin
mixed together in the presence of oxygen
and fuel for the cell called ATP the
chemical reaction gives off energy in
the form of light once scientists
figured out how the Firefly creates its
luciferase and luciferin they use
genetic engineering to make this light
producing reaction occur inside other
living things that can't glow for
example they inserted the genes or
instructions for a cell to create
firefly luciferase and luciferin into a
tobacco plant once there the tobacco
plant followed the instructions slipped
into its DNA and lit up like a Christmas
tree
the beauty of bioluminescence unlike the
light from the Sun or an incandescent
bulb is that it's not hot it takes place
in a range of temperatures that don't
burn a living thing and unlike a glow
stick which fades out as the chemicals
inside get used up bioluminescent
reactions use replenishable resources
that's one reason engineers are trying
to develop bioluminescent trees just
think if planted on the side of highways
they could light the way using only
oxygen and other freely available clean
resources to run talk about survival
advantage that could help our planet
live longer do you find yourself
thinking of other ways to put
bioluminescence to good use that glow
stick you swing in a rave may help you
find a mate but how else can
bioluminescence improve your survival if
you start thinking in this way you have
seen the light
you